[Introduction](https://www.cipherchallenge.org/challenge/introduction/)

ADA LOVELACE AND CHARLES BABBAGE ARE TWO OF THE MOST IMPORTANT MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY. THEY FEATURED IN THE FIRST NATIONAL CIPHER CHALLENGE, AND AGAIN SOME YEARS LATER WHEN WE EXPLORED THEIR EARLY MEETING. IN THIS ADVENTURE WE ARE RETURNING TO THE END OF HER LIFE, AT LEAST THE PART RECORDED IN THE ARCHIVES AT BOSS HEADQUARTERS. I FOUND THIS STORY BY ACCIDENT WHEN I WAS RESEARCHING THE ROLE OF THE ROYAL FAMILY IN OUR NATIONAL SECURITY. MANY OF THEM SERVED IN THE MILITARY AND ARE FAMILIAR WITH CODES AND CIPHERS, AND I WONDERED HOW FAR BACK THAT INTEREST WENT. THAT WAS HOW I STUMBLED ACROSS A NOTE FROM PRINCE ALBERT TO LORD PALMERSTON AND THAT STARTED ME DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE THAT LED US HERE. I HOPE YOU ENJOY IT AS MUCH AS I DID. WE WILL MEET SOME FASCINATING NEW CHARACTERS ON THE WAY, AND THE STORY TAKES A TWIST OR TWO. OF COURSE, I KNOW HOW IT ENDS, YOU DON\'T YET, BUT IF YOU STICK WITH IT YOU WILL, AND, LIKE ME, YOU WILL PROBABLY LEARN SOMETHING ON THE WAY. I HAVE POSTED A SKETCH OF A BULLET THAT WAS SENT TO ADA BACK IN 1851 ON THE CASE FILES PAGE. THAT WAS WHERE THE STORY BEGAN AND WHAT DREW ADA IN. TAKE A LOOK AND SEE IF YOU CAN FIGURE OUT WHAT IT MIGHT HAVE MEANT. IT IS NOT A BAD PLACE TO START.

This text hints at a cipher challenge centered around Ada Lovelace and Charles Babbage, key historical figures known for their work in computing. The narrator, while researching the involvement of the Royal Family in national security, stumbled upon a note from Prince Albert to Lord Palmerston, which led to the discovery of a story involving Ada Lovelace. The challenge seems to focus on the later years of Ada’s life, based on records from BOSS headquarters. It involves uncovering mysteries tied to a sketch of a bullet sent to Ada in 1851. The narrator encourages participants to explore this clue and follow the twists in the story.

---

