
### 1. **Phase 0 / Introduction**

- **Brief Description of Problem**:
    
    - Sorting algorithms can be challenging to understand and visualize, especially for students learning sorting algorithms and new algorithmic concepts. 
    - Sometimes, abstract steps that are hard to follow without a visual representation.
	
- **Brief Description of Intended Solution**:
    
    - The project will involve creating a sorting algorithm visualizer using NextJS and Material UI (MUI). 
    - I will create an interactive and dynamic display of various sorting.

### 2. **Phase 1: Analysis**

- **Challenge and Complexity**:
    
    - **Technical Challenges**: Creating a way to handle real-time data visualization in browser without impacting performance.
    - **Complexity**: Implementing multiple different algorithms correctly and efficiently
    - **Interactivity**: Implementing a good user experience and UI, allowing for controlling the speed, pause sorting, and restarting without the need to refresh the page
	
- **Stakeholders**:
    
    - Developers trying to understand concepts
    - Students
    - Educators
	
- **Research / Existing Systems**:
    
    - **Existing Solutions**: Several existing tools offer sorting visualizations, such as [VisuAlgo](https://visualgo.net/). VisuAlgo provides basic visualizations, but lacks some interactive features for sorting algorithms
    - **Comparison**: I'll be using a modern tech stack to provide a modern interface and provide better accessibility and additional functions, with a focus on sorting algorithms specifically.
	
- **Minimum System Requirements**:
    
	- Unsure currently!

- **Limitations, and Success Criteria**

	- **Features**:
	    
	    1. Providing a clear and accessible way to visualize sorting algorithms which will includes step-by-step operations
	    2. Real-time visual feedback with a custom web element
	    3. Support for multiple sorting algorithms (e.g., Bubble Sort, Quick Sort, Merge Sort) 
	    4. Accessibility across different devices via browser
	    5. A Statistics display containing benchmarks (e.g., Time complexity, Comparisons, Swaps, Memory accesses).

    - **Limitations**:
	
        1. Complexity: Adding multiple different sorting algorithms may be difficult to implement
        2. Accessibility: Animation may not work due to limitations on lower-end hardware
	
    - **Success Criteria**:
	
        1. The application correctly, and visualizes a sorting algorithm.
        2. Clean and well-documented code
        3. A Git repo storing commits allowing previous access to previous build.
